" Vim configuration by Lubomir-Russia
" Settings are gathered from different books, sites, and people
"
" To me vi is zen. To use vi is to practice zen. Every command is a koan.
" Profound to the user, unintelligible to the uninitiated. You discover truth
" every time you use it. 
"                               — Satish Reddy 
"                               From O'Railly - Learning VIM
"
" 
" A “Language” of Text Editing
"
" One way to think about Vim’s normal-mode commands is like a language. You
" have “verbs” and “nouns”. For example: the “change” command (c) would be a
" verb and the “word” item (w) is a noun. You can combine them to form
" imperative sentences that talk about what you want to do with your text.
"
" The wonderful part about this is that whenever you learn a new verb (like
" “delete” (d)) you can immediately apply it to all the nouns you know, and
" vice versa.
"
" Vim also has “adjectives” like “inside” and “around” (i and a) that let you
" craft sentences like “change inside parenthesis” (ci( or cib). Once you
" learn one of these you can immediately apply it to all the verbs and nouns
" you already know.
"                               - Steve Losh
"                               From Coming Home to Vim 
"                               http://stevelosh.com/blog/2010/09/coming-home-to-vim/
"
" Installation :
" Copy or symlink to ~/.vimrc or ~/_vimrc. and make dir for swap files
" ln -nfs ~/bin/dotfiles/vim/vimrc ~/.vimrc
" ln -nfs ~/bin/dotfiles/vim ~/.vim
" mkdir -p ~/.bak/swap
" mkdir -p ~/.bak/vim
"
" System wide settings are here: /usr/local/share/vim/vim73 

set nocompatible                  " Must come first because it changes other options.

silent! call pathogen#runtime_append_all_bundles()

" Professor VIM says '87% of users prefer jj over esc', jj abrams disagrees
imap jj <Esc> 

" Mappings useful for log view
nmap <F3> /<<< ------<CR>zz 
nmap <F4> /START<CR>zt

" Mappings useful for Perl view
nmap <F5> :set number!<Cr>
nmap <F6> :set list!<Cr>
nmap <F8> :set wrap!<Cr>
nmap <F11> <Plug>ShowFunc 

" Mapping F7 for spell check (use ]s, z=, zg, zb)
nmap <F7> :set spell!<Cr>

" Mapping \1 to copy a line and comment it with #
nmap <leader>1 yypI#<Esc>k

" Tab mappings.
map <leader>tt :tabnew<cr>
map <leader>te :tabedit
map <leader>tc :tabclose<cr>
map <leader>to :tabonly<cr>
" useless, use default gt
" map <leader>tn :tabnext<cr>      
" useless, use default gT
" map <leader>tp :tabprevious<cr>  
map <leader>tf :tabfirst<cr>
map <leader>tl :tablast<cr>
map <leader>tm :tabmove

" Vim - hjkl-ing while in insert mode
inoremap <M-j> <C-O>gj 
inoremap <M-k> <C-O>gk 
noremap! <M-h> <Left> 
noremap! <M-l> <Right> 

" Create an undo point after each WORD
inoremap <Space> <Space><c-g>u
inoremap <Tab> <Tab><c-g>u
inoremap <CR> <CR><c-g>u
" Recover from accidental Ctrl-U and Ctrl-W in insert mode         
inoremap <c-u> <c-g>u<c-u>
inoremap <c-w> <c-g>u<c-w>

" Enter in normal mode adds a new line
" This mapping is incompatible with ShowFunc plugin, that uses <CR> for jumps
"nnoremap <CR> i<CR><Esc>

" Uncomment to use Jamis Buck's file opening plugin
"map <Leader>t :FuzzyFinderTextMate<Enter>

" Controversial...swap colon and semicolon for easier commands
"nnoremap ; :
"nnoremap : ;
"

"vnoremap ; :
"vnoremap : ;

" Use perl compiler for all *.pl and *.pm files.
autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead *.p? compiler perl
" Reread .vimrc configuration file after it was saved.
" autocmd! bufwritepost $MYVIMRC source $MYVIMRC
" Same but in case the ~/.vimrc is just a link to a vimrc file in dorfiles.
autocmd! bufwritepost vimrc source $MYVIMRC
if has("autocmd")
        set viewoptions=cursor,folds
        autocmd BufWinLeave *.* silent mkview       " Save view of the window.
        autocmd BufWinEnter *.* silent loadview     " Restore it when open.
endif

syntax enable                     " Turn on syntax highlighting.
filetype plugin indent on         " Turn on file type detection.

runtime macros/matchit.vim        " Load the matchit plugin.
" set showmatch                     " Similar built-in function.

set showcmd                       " Display incomplete commands.
set showmode                      " Display the mode you're in.
set title                         " Set the terminal's title
" set visualbell                    " No beeping but terminal flash.
set vb t_vb="                     " No beeping and no flash.
" set number                        " Show (absolute) line numbers.
set ruler                         " Show cursor position.
set showtabline=2		          " Display tabs all of the time
set relativenumber                " Show relative line number. Useful for motion/deletion commands.
set showmode                      " Default when not vi compatible.
set confirm                       " Use confirmation dialog instead of error message.

set backspace=indent,eol,start    " Intuitive backspacing.

set hidden                        " Handle multiple buffers better.
" set autoread                      " Reread file automatically if it changes.

set wildmenu                      " Enhanced command line completion.
" set wildmode=list:longest         " Complete files like a shell.
set wildmode=list,full            "	List all matches without completing, then each full match.

set ignorecase                    " Case-insensitive searching.
set smartcase                     " But case-sensitive if expression contains a capital letter.
set incsearch                     " Highlight matches as you type.
set hlsearch                      " Highlight matches.

set wrap                          " Turn on line wrapping.
set linebreak                     " Wrap at the end of words.
" set showbreak=------>           " String to put at the start of lines that have been wrapped.
set scrolloff=3                   " Show 3 lines of context around the cursor.
" set colorcolumn=85                " Show a colored column at 85 characters (so I can see when I write a too-long line of code).
" set formatoptions=qrn1            " Diffrent styles of text formating see fo-table for detailes or just ust defaults. 

" set browsedir=current             " Dir for file browser. Only for Win GUI and some Unix managers.
" set nobackup                      " Don't make a backup before overwriting a file.
" set nowritebackup                 " And again.
set backup                        " Keep a backup file
set backupdir=$HOME/.bak/vim/     " Keep backup files in one location (it must exist).  
set directory=$HOME/.bak/swap//,. " Keep swap files in one location, if not possible then in working dir.
" If a directory ends in two path separators, the swap file name will be built from the complete path to the file with all path separators. This will ensure file name uniqueness in the preserve directory.
" Add the following line to your shell initialization file ~/.bashrc or  ~/.profile :
" find $HOME/.bak/vim/ -name "*" -type f -mtime +60 -exec rm -f {} \;
" When you are logging in all files in the backup directory older then 60 days will be removed. Be shure to backup in shorter terms!

" set undofile                      " Create <Filename>.un~ file. These files contain undo information so you can undo previous actions even after you close and reopen a file.
" au FocusLost * :wa                " Save all on losing focus.

set tabstop=4                     " Global tab width.
set shiftwidth=4                  " And again, related.
set expandtab                     " Use spaces instead of tabs
set softtabstop=4		            " It feels like <Tab>s are being inserted, while in fact a mix of spaces and <Tab>s is used.  
set autoindent                    "  Copy indent from current line when starting a new line.
" Keep tabs instead of spaces in the files: crontab, fstab and make.
au FileType crontab,fstab,make set noexpandtab tabstop=8 shiftwidth=8
" Set list listchars=tab: ,precedes:<,extends:>
set list listchars=precedes:<,extends:>,tab:>-,trail:- 
set nolist	            		  " Do not show list till asked to do it

set laststatus=2                  " Show the status line all the time
" Useful status information at bottom of screen
set statusline=[%n]\ %<%.99f\ %h%w%m%r%y\ %{fugitive#statusline()}%{exists('*CapsLockStatusline')?CapsLockStatusline():''}%=%-16(\ %l,%c-%v\ %)%P

" set t_Co=256                      " Use more colors in terminal. May effect some colorshemas.
" colorscheme topfunky-light
" colorscheme vividchalk
" colorscheme zenburn             " Works best with t_Co=256
colorscheme murphy              " Works best with t_Co=256 not set
" Solarized colorschema http://ethanschoonover.com/solarized
" let g:solarized_termcolors=256
" colorscheme solarized             " Works best with t_Co=256
" set background=dark


" Automatic fold settings for specific files. Uncomment to use.
" autocmd FileType ruby setlocal foldmethod=syntax
" autocmd FileType css  setlocal foldmethod=indent shiftwidth=2 tabstop=2

" To get basic Folding for Perl and PHP working add
let perl_fold=1
let perl_fold_blocks = 1
let php_folding=1 
set nofoldenable " Do not fold when a file is just opened
" set foldlevel=1 " Only first level is opened if foldenable is set.
" set foldcolumn=3 " Show control line. 
" set foldopen=all " Open folds when entering them. Otherwise use <l> to move in.


" For the MakeGreen plugin and Ruby RSpec. Uncomment to use.
" autocmd BufNewFile,BufRead *_spec.rb compiler rspec

" Vim и русская раскладка клавиатуры
"
" В обычном режиме Vim по умолчанию ожидает, что консоль находится в режиме
" ввода латинских символов. Если вы, к примеру, редактируете с помощью Vim
" текст на русском языке, или в смешанных кодировках (к примеру, HTML-страницу
" на русском), то постоянная необходимость переключать системную клавиатурную
" раскладку очень быстро вам надоест. Существует несколько способов решить эту
" проблему.
" Способ 1 : Сделать так, чтобы русские буквы можно было вводить когда системная
" раскладка находится в режиме ввода латинских символов.
"
set keymap=russian-jcukenwin         " установить keymap, чтобы по Ctrl+^ переключался на русский и обратно
set iminsert=0                       " по умолчанию - латинская раскладка
set imsearch=0                       " по умолчанию - латинская раскладка при поиске
set guifont=courier_new:h10:cRUSSIAN " установить шрифт Courier New Cyr
set iskeyword=@,48-57,_,192-255      " настраиваю для работы с русскими словами (чтобы w, b, * понимали русские слова)
"
" После этого системную раскладку клавиатуры можно будет оставить в режиме
" ввода латинских символов, а переключение между языками осуществлять уже
" внутри самого редактора с помощью команды Ctrl+^ (Ctrl+6 в версии для
" Windows) 
"
" Способ 2 : Сделать так, чтобы Vim понимал, какие клавиши нажимаются, если включена русская раскладка.
" set langmap=ёйцукенгшщзхъфывапролджэячсмитьбюЁЙЦУКЕHГШЩЗХЪФЫВАПРОЛДЖЭЯЧСМИТЬБЮ;`qwertyuiop[]asdfghjkl\\;'zxcvbnm\\,.~QWERTYUIOP{}ASDFGHJKL:\\"ZXCVBNM<>
" при этом способе надо помнить и использовать русские знаки припенания.
" Попытка переназначить их приведёт к переназначению и в английской расскладке
" так же. Например переназначив 'русскую' . на / получим что теперь всегда и
" 'английская' . так же будет указывать на / 
"
" Если у вас локаль UTF, то данный способ может не работать в старых версиях Vim.
" Необходимо каждый символ назначить индивидуально: http://ru.wikibooks.org/wiki/Vim

" Jump to the last position of opened file.
autocmd! bufreadpost * call LastPosition()
    function! LastPosition()
        if line("'\"") && line("'\"")<=line('$')
            normal! `"
        endif
    endfunction

" per wiki options http://code.google.com/p/vimwiki/  also see vimwiki help
" for more options.

  let wiki = {}
  let wiki.path = '~/bin/dotfiles/wiki/'          " vimwiki location
  let wiki.auto_export = 1                   " keep html uptodate
  let wiki.nested_syntaxes = {'perl': 'perl', 'bash': 'sh', 'python': 'python', 'c++': 'cpp'} " highlight code syntax
  let g:vimwiki_list = [wiki]

